uh for the students
so if you click on reading this
probably your view is different so let
me just
change this one to the student view you
see something like this uh these are our
standards
if you click on each of these
let's see what's happened
okay it asks you actually to put your
student id and password
then through the library
okay you get connected to the
sai global website which
sells actually many standards and
the link i see it works and
you can see this is the
document if you click on it you should
be able to
see a pdf file
okay you need to have a registration
using your email
uts email
okay then the links disappear so if you
get back to
um let me hold this
let me click again
okay
okay now i see what's the problem i'll
i'll tell
library to have a look to this issue
whatever if you quick search you should
be able to find the document
let me say 31 000
um okay the section
okay if you search it don't need this
one box or not
okay now you can download so your first
item
in in clicking on the link
goes to the standard but
after logging in in the external website
you get this
if you click search you should be able
to find the document
and now you can save it as a pdf file
yes
okay by the way i'll ask you libraries
to see
uh probably they cannot fix it because
this
this issue is related to the external
site
if you click and you can and you cannot
find it please search
the name of the standard on the global
website then you can download it
this is the latest version of oyster
31000 standard
it came true in 2018
and you need to go through this we will
have a look to the framework today
and you you need to go through it's only
20 pages or something
and for for the risk management plan you
need to first read this
standard and work to see what's the
requirement for each of
these components then you need to
implement the same
in your case study you do need to
provide the definition of these
components in your
report you need to provide the
implementation of these concepts these
components in your
assignment any questions
okay for assignment one i'll have a look
to assignment
let me just make sure i record this
okay um
for assignment one please make sure
you read the topics
topics are available here more
information and marking criteria
for assignment one is only 2
500 words or you it could be 3 000
between these two and what you need to
do
you need to first
read these topics
very short description for for for these
topics domino effects
nautics land use planning human error
security and environmental damages
then see what's your interest if
this description is not enough to decide
about the topic you need to
do a bit of research for yourself and
find your interest
and it's very good if you can make a
connection with your background
for software engineering students cyber
security is
okay too for
for other disciplines i think you can
fit
in one of these your money roll is
everywhere
in any in any discipline so uh
still you can find some interest and
you need to do a bit of research about
these topics
assessment one is about topic analysis
and cases study finally so when you
find your interest in one of these
topics you
select to you need to go and do some
googling
and find two cases so it is relevant to
your topic
many failures happen previously um
and i'm sure you you should be fine to
to find cases study for
for one of these topics then this is the
structure of your report based on the
marketing criteria you need to have an
introduction
you need to explain your topic maybe
provide a definition of your topic what
is human error what is nominal effect
then make a connection with your case
study
say this case system this topic is
important
there are many evidence in the
literature in industry
about the importance of this topic and i
found two cases studies like
this x and y then
for each case study you need to do some
of these
tasks you need to have it to provide a
description
and setting the boundaries we will talk
about the boundaries today
for example you found like our case
study
something happened in an open top tank
so you describe
the what is the system it has a mixing
function it has a heating function
something like that you provide some
figures if you can
to help the reader the marker to
understand your case study
then you set the boundary then you do a
stakeholder analysis which is
which is not very difficult i'll talk
about this
then you determine the inherent risk and
you draw a causal chain
for the accident when you set
the when you describe the system and
boundary
you you don't look at the accident you
look at the system
and when you do a stakeholder you
develop a stakeholder analysis for your
system
then inherent risk and causal change
analysis
are are relevant to your to the accident
that happened in your cases study to
some extent
inherently you need to realize what was
the main hazard in your case
study and the causal chain says
what how multiple failures
over time could lead to this accident
for each case study you describe this
and at the end you provide a summary
for your report and there are some marks
for organization and presentation
we don't have any template or format
uh for assessment one so you develop
your own
uh format and there are some marks for
presentation maybe you need to have a
heading
for example
maybe stick to the standard
fonts and size like 11
times near roman for the phone
you need to have page for example page
number
heaters uh headers and footers and
it's really your art to format your
uh your report and there are some marks
any questions and there is a
there is a document here for a
stakeholder analysis it explains
how to do a stakeholder analysis
stakeholder analysis means
we need to identify the entities
or parties that have an interest in our
system
or the affect by our system
one of the requirements for this
assessment
is to identify if we affected any
any indigenous community or not
so stakeholder analysis
including indigenous communities is not
necessary to have an indigenous
community involved
but it it there is a value to
investigate
if indigenous communities
are impacted by our cases study online
and that's enough
so go through the stakeholder analysis
the document is only 10 pages
it includes what is the stakeholder
analysis
it categorize the stakeholders in
primary and secondary
then it explains how to actually
identify the importance of
each of these entities in a case
okay very good any question about
assessment one
okay there is a there is another another
question in
in the chat box about assessment to risk
management plan
so for the risk management plan it's
good to be proactive i like
students to be proactive start to work
sooner don't delay everything to the
last minute
is a risk management subject and you
show you can manage
all kind of risks in the subject too
so if you are going to if you would like
to do assessment 2
in group in the discussion boards we
have a discussion board here looking for
teammates here you can introduce
yourself
already a couple of the students have
done this
so you maybe introduce yourself a bit
about your risk management process be
based on oiso 31000 standard
and we will talk about systems thinking
and reliability engineers
in fact this systems thinking and
reliability engineering
are two prerequisites for doing risk
assessment and risk management for the
rest of weeks
in their subject and in the real world
you as as engineer you need to have
systems thinking
um in your mind when you do
design you do development you do
operation you need to have this kind of
thinking in your mind
and reliability engineer i think is one
of those areas that every engineer
should know
we may have some business students in
the subject
i'm not sure um is there any students
from business background
yes okay what do you study
what's your uh what's your name
my internet is not so good
okay we don't have any problem with
business
students we just need to know if there
is any business
students in the subject to provide more
support
in terms of learning for those students
so please send me email if you
if you do business and you have a
business background
so i i should know and to be able to
provide more support
for those students mainly the subject is
hazard engineering nature but
what we teach and what you learn in
terms of risk management can be applied
in you know business in organization
in financial institute so
principles are the same but the main
focus
or maybe
the application part of the subject is
about engineering
okay in the rest of the semester we will
talk about risk
assessment and we will introduce a
variety of risk assessment techniques
and then at the end of the semester we
will talk about risk evaluation
and risk treatment we introduce a couple
of techniques for risk
based decision making and some
principles were risk
communication and we have some special
topics like natural hazards domino
effect
and not hex in the subject
based on iso 31000 standard
there is a framework framework for
for doing risk management and it's very
similar to
other iso standards is go through the
design of the framework
for managing risk then it goes through
the implementation
then monitoring of the framework then
continual improvement of the framework
and is a iterative process for doing
risk management
what is the risk management process the
standard provides
this for this process for
implementing risk management it has some
boxes
it goes starts with establishing the
context
then a main core idea of this process is
risk assessment
it goes through the risk identification
risk analysis
and risk evaluation plan risk treatment
and monitoring and review and
communication consultations
or two boxes that fit to all these
other boxes in the process
so in the risk management plan you need
to provide
the details for each of these boxes
you establish the context the
requirements
are in the standard you will read it and
you do the risk assessment for your case
study
using fmea in the risk management plan
and you propose some risk treatment and
you provide how you monitor it
monitor the implementation of all these
and how you communicate
the implementation and result of these
boxes with your
stakeholders so you actually you
attend this process in your risk
management
plan we will go through the details of
this
in the future weeks don't worry about
but it's very good to download the
standard
right now and just go through the
details
and see what is the requirement for each
of these components
then we will discuss further in future
weeks
so a good question about risk management
is a iterative process you do a lot of
things
then you go through this cycle
then you need to start or how much risk
management is enough for your situation
let's have a look at this video
please note we don't sell any trials
uh
oh
sorry mate
so as you see how much risk management
is enough
is really depends on your
risk perception risk attitude and risk
appetite it depends on your
organization if their organization risk
errors or is a risk neutral or risk
seeker
organization look at this example
you are on a tv game show and you won 5
the host offers you a choice to create
now or and keep the 5 000
or play again if you play again there is
a chance of
50 percent that you win
and there is a chance of 50 percent to
lose your 5 000
so if you decide to play again and lose
you
you lost all five thousand dollars as
you can see the value of
this game to decide to do
the game again or not is the same as
you keep the five thousand dollars but
what is the option
what is your decision it really depends
on your
risk attitude there are many people they
always
seek help so they decide to go for
another game maybe they can
win 10 000 and there are
many people's or risk errors they avoid
that and
for a risk national person the option
could be
a random choice between continuing
or creating the game and you will see
when you step out from the subject and
go to the
real world you will see these kind of
attitude is really depends on of their
stakeholders high level
of management people in the organization
and how
they and how what is the
risk perception and what is the risk
appetite of the organization
okay now we are going to start
to introduce a couple of principles
uh for the rest of subject for the rest
of subject
we are going to start fast risk
assessment
in the line with the process of risk
management next week
for for preparation for risk assessment
and risk management later in at the end
of the semester
we need to have some prerequisite first
when we are going to start risk
assessment we should be able to find
to determine the situation it means
how we we can structure a problem
or how we can define the system
and what is the definition of failures
and reliabilities
in the risk assessment context so
that's the reason we are going to talk
about systems thinking
and reliability engineering today
there are a couple of short videos on
canvas
for system definition system boundary
the the the difference between systems
thinking and analytical thinking
please watch these videos on canvas if
you haven't done that
only the maybe the summation of all
minutes
in the videos is 15 minutes and that is
very good for you
to get some get some better ideas and
more examples
about systems thinking and
what we refer to this concept in the
subject
and actually this is not the focus of
our subject
we have another subject systems
engineering for managers
so in that subject i recommend to enroll
that subject if you
if you are interested and you if you
have any
uh any possibility in terms of your
credits
uh in that subject we i don't teach that
subject but
my colleague will go through the details
of
systems systems thinking
techniques for system definition
techniques for system analysis
in more details and i i know they
introduce
good technologies good methodologies for
systems thinking for us
[Music]
we can just consider what is the
definition of system
the system is a greek word which is
called
systema and means an organized whole
based on increasing the definition of
systems in
engineering is a cons is a construct or
collection of different elements that
together produce results
not obtained by elements alone
here you need to differentiate between
sets and system
sex means a group of elements a group of
entities together but they don't have
any relationship together they may have
but the the the relationship between
entities
are not defined to achieving
a purpose a goal an objective like
people who are
standing in the bus stop shows
a set of obj set of objects set of
elements all for example you are sitting
in the in the subject online
and a set of students
we have now a set of students in the
subject
the relationship between students are
not that much
important at the moment as soon as i
decide to allocate a student to break
out rooms
and ask them to work on some exercises
then you can see there is a system
a couple of students together
they have an objective they talk to each
other they collaborate to each other to
solve their
exercise so the relationship
between elements are very important
in the system definition
you have a laptop in front of you you
have a computer
so your computer is a system you have a
screen you have a keyboard there is a
pro
processor inside there is a fan there is
a battery inside
all these elements are working together
for you
to be able to get connected to this
online meeting and work with your
computer
and chat with me chat with other
students and do other friendships
so your computer is a good example of
assist or for your car
your car has a body has an engine
you have a battery you have lights all
these elements are connected to each
other and the purpose of
your car is satisfying movement from
point a to point b so you you can see
systems are everywhere and through
many years many kind of systems
have come to the world from the
parliaments in
egypt power plants organizations
and shelters and other things you you
will see
you can find many systems around yours
so if we gonna represent the system
definition
maybe this diagram is a good choice
we have some circles they represent each
element of the system
there are relationship between elements
based on design based on the purpose
and there is a boundary that
separates our system from the
environment
you may have inputs to your system and
you may have
outputs from from your system
so maybe you ask what is the environment
when we talk about the environment we
don't refer to the whole world
for example you have a car your car is a
system but then
we talk about the environment we don't
refer to the
war when we talk about the environment
we talk about
those kind of things that they are
outside of your boundary
but they have interaction close
interaction with your system
for example the role that your car
starts to go from point a to point b
is your environment or the way that is
raining or cloudy or sunny
in that time then you're gonna start
from point a to
and go to point b and you may have
inputs and outputs it's not necessary to
have inputs
when we we refer to input we mainly
refer to
having some materials and energy from
their
environment like your car
you need fuel so you you have an input
to your car
and you may have output what is not
necessary to have
output for example your you have your
car has an exhaust
so you put some you know emission to the
environment so it's a kind of
putting base into the environment
what what about a bridge for a bridge
we have the elements we have the
relationship between these elements
and we have the environment for example
the bridge is
on a river so the environment
around this physical environment around
this bridge
but our bridge doesn't have any input
and output
so it represents a closed loop
system we will talk about the categories
uh
in i think in the next couple of look at
our case
study the open top tank we said
all our system includes
some one sensor we have a temperature
control here
there is a sensors there is a p unit
and there is a steam in a steam out
there are some valves here
we have a tank there is an engine
on top of the tank and we have this
mixing system and we have a ventilation
function including event dock
and other things and we have operator
who works with this system
so this is
the definition of these systems and we
know how they works
the system goes the steam goes
through the steam calls provides some
heating and steam goes
out and there is an engine and
mixing system here so we know how this
system works
if you don't know for example
do you think a human operator is
one element in our system or not
what do you think
[Music]
i want to highlight these that elements
in our systems
are not only hard things or soft things
humans or other kind of you know
entities can be a part of our system
because this system has been designed
by the designer by engineers like to
like you that the operator needs to work
with
system to control the temperature to
just
mix the material together we can
have a thinking that our
operator is an element in our system
but it really depends on your purpose
to to decide about the elements
in your system and the same thing
for system boundary
boundary separate the system from the
environment
whatever is inside is a part of the
system
and whatever is outside of the boundary
is in one
how we decide the environment is really
again
is depends on your objective
we you as an engineer
decide to design something and you have
an objective you have a client you have
some requirements
you decide about the boundary of your
system look at
our cases study again we may say that
the boundary of this system is only
these components in the open top
tank including approach and whatever
is is not inside of these
elements is out of our boundary in the
environment
this is if only if i'm if my objective
is to work with the open top tank alone
what if my objective is to consider
bringing material to the tank and
thinking about how we transfer the
material the product from the tank to
the environment
i may include the storage
my boundary inside of my boundary too
if my objective is something else my
objective is
wider and i'm going to think about
any domino effect in my cases that any
possible domino effect in my
in my system
i may introduce i may consider the open
top tank
is storage that this product directly
goes to that
storage tank and other tanks
that they are in the nearby and i'm
going to consider them
if there is a accident i'm going to
consider
what will happen in terms of domino
effect in my system
so it really depends on your objective
to set the boundary of your system
when you start assessment one then you
will challenge yourself
about setting the boundaries for your
case system
sometimes we need to to stick to a
smaller boundary to
to make sure that we can investigate
or if this is very simple we may think
about
to expand the boundary to include more
things
um that to represent that we can
deal with a complex system so
you will get some experiment experience
to
do through your readings and attempting
assessment one by the way if you have
any questions
uh feel free to ask in the online
meetings and
you can post it on canvas so we talked
about inputs and outputs
you may have some of these in your
system
if the system doesn't accept any input
and output
you don't have any interaction with your
environment
they are called um closed
system or if you accept
you have open system and there are other
categories
that you may see in the textbook we may
have a
category of natural systems like rivers
ecosystems human-made systems
we can categorize some of the systems
in human-made um
category we may have a physical systems
conceptual systems
static or dynamic systems and
close and open loop systems that we
transfer so there are many categories
for systems
and it's good to know when we talk about
the system
every system has a live stream
and in some standards
you can get some more details about
this lifecycle it starts with the
identification of a need
this is the role of engineers
to identify a need
then you do planning and research
in the next phase of
a system then you go through the details
after finishing this you start
production
or construction
then you do evaluation
then you provide consumer use and field
support
for your system at the end of this
circuit
every engineering system
will phase out or you need to dispose
your system and it's good to know
we know for risk analysis for risk
assessment for
risk management we need to have a system
we need to be we need to be able to
identify
the objective the purposes
set the boundary identify the system
subsystems elements components
and other things and you know and the
system that we define has a life cycle
and it's good to know that risk analysis
can be used
in each of these phases risk analysis
can be used in each phase of this life
cycle
in the conceptual design for example
risk analysis can
help you to compare alternatives with
a lower risk in the design
phase you may use risk analysis to
introduce some barriers
for protection and prevention and other
kind of things like minimized minimize
lifecycle
in the development phase you may use
risk analysis
to identify the subsystems that have
bigger contribution to the safety and
risk of your system
or you may use risk analysis for quality
insurance
in regulation you may use risk analysis
to determine some inspection
you design a mechanical electrical
system
risk analysis can help you to introduce
the inspection
for example for which component we need
inspection
what's the duration what is the period
for those kind of inspection based on
the risk analysis that we do
and we may use risk analysis to set
monitoring and performance criteria for
ourselves
in operation a hot topic for research at
the moment is risk-based
maintenance there are for example
in a big plan there are many maintenance
activities at the same time so risk
analysis can help us to
rank the maintenance activity we need to
attend
the activities that have
high or unacceptable risk at the moment
then we go for lower
priority risks this is one of the main
objectives of risk analysis in operation
and for example risk-based asset asset
management is another hot topic
in many large organizations
how they can maintain their assets based
on the risk analysis
and in the comp decomposition we may use
risk analysis to select
in which way it's better to decompose
or dispose the engineering system
so there is interconnection between
those kind of things
the system life cycle and risk
there are many methods for system
definition
we won't go through the details of this
because this is not
in our objectives and there is another
subject
for going through the details but they
are mainly functional analysis
requirement analysis today we will
introduce reliability block diagram as a
system definition method
some of these methods have many
usages for example reliability block
diagram
can be used for system definition and
can be used for reliability analysis
of an engineering system
and a good methodology
for system definition is systems
engineering
is a methodology that introduces a
framework like this
starting from requirement analysis or to
the functional analysis
and synthesis and system analysis
which treat which feeds to all these
phases and risk management you can see
is a component of risk analysis
in the systems engineering process that
helps with other
phases in that methodology i won't go
through the details of this
um you can expect sometimes to go
through
by yourself if you have any question you
can post it on there
discussion whatever we say in terms of
systems thinking
and then the last
you know slides are enough to just open
your mind
then next week we will now start these
classes
any questions so far about systems
thinking
no questions
okay now i'm going to start with
yes in one chat
let me see but here i need to stop this
one
okay questions of topic on tutorials
will we need to be recording yes
tutorials will be recorded don't worry
we have a short videos of tutorials
available
we release the solutions the video
our solutions every week
if you need a full tutorial to be
recorded it's okay
i can do it um you can refer to the
short video
or the actual tutorial
session okay
um let me start with reliability
engineering
in the context of risk engineering
reliability
engineering is a part of risk
engineering
that which is concerned about analyzing
the reliability maintainability and
availability of the
safety system before going to the
reliability we need to identify
we need to have
some perception about systems perform
this is this is not a unique definition
of system performance
in other sources you may see a bigger or
a smaller definition of the components
for the system performance based on our
textbook
we say a system performs well
if it has all these
all these elements and look at this and
gate
when you say i'm gay it means what all
of these elements are necessary
for the system capability
efficiency and availability
whenever you lose one of these elements
or a combination of them
we don't say the system performed
so this is there and
the emphasis is in the and gate here
between these elements
by by design we know
the systems have some capacity
they have strengths they have some
tolerance
this is all their capacity
then there are some challenges
like low stress and other kind of things
that they are lowering the capacity
offices
and it's very common from time to time
that we have
adverse condition in our environment
that they increase challenges and they
reduce the capacity of our system
whenever the summation of challenges
including adverse conditions or
bigger than the capacity of the system
is saying there is a
failure you as a student has a capacity
you have a knowledge
and you have some capacity to learn the
new knowledge
there are some challenges you have a
full-time job you have a part-time job
and you have some physical limitations
they are the challenges
for one student and there are some
adverse condition
like corner virus like extreme weather
freezing each weather they
increase challenges they lowering your
capacity
if the challenges with the corner virus
synergy can affect your capacity you may
fail the subject
otherwise you are in the success state
of
your own so this is the definition of
failure
what is reliability now we know what is
the reliability or survival is a
probability
the probability that the system can
perform
as a specified
for its purpose for a given length of
time
this is the formal definition of reality
under annoyability or failure
in reverse is the pro is the probability
that the
system fails to perform
its function and you can see the
reliability
and failure or complementary events it
means the summation of these
probabilities
must be one
is your computer reliable
is your friend reliable is your car
valid
so in the day-to-day life
we refer to the reliability too much
and we have a perception and
comprehension of reliability
and if you just get back to them
get back to the your perception and
compression of this you can see
yes i can define the reliability
of my laptop based on the probability
that my computer performs there
there is a chance of failure as long as
the probability of failure is low
so i say my computer my laptop
is running so based on this definition
reliability
is one oneness on reliability
and if the failure of the system has a
density function of
time f a t you can convert this
definition
to to this integral
failure has a density function of f of t
so mathematically speaking the
reliability equals to this integral from
time t
to infinity the density function of
f of t which is the failure and in
engineering systems
it's very common to see exponential
variable or low
normal or generalized common
for the failure density function
you will see um when we go through
uh throughout the semester you will see
that the examples that we provide
have some of these uh properties
in terms of reliability measurement
there are some measures
there are these uh failure rate
and mtbf meantime between failures are
common
reliability measures what is failure
rate the failure rate is the number of
failures divided by total operation
for example you run a system in a
repairable system
for 1000 hours you count the number of
failures during 1000 hours divided by
total operating hours the summation of
operation hours between failures
if you divide this do this fraction you
can calculate
defender or mean time between failures
we know you have a system system
is off sometimes system is done
if you do the summation of total
operation hours divided by
number of failures so you have you can
calculate
mean time between failures or mtvm this
is the average
mean means average
and you can see the relationship between
mtbf and failure rate they have a
reverse relationship mtbf is
won by failure rate
if your system is not repayable
mtbf is mean time to
failure which is called mttf so
it is not a problem
in recognition of this whatever the case
is you can recognize it is repairable or
not so you can decide
about one of these measures
look at this example we we're gonna
test a ball for 1000 herbs
we're gonna calculate the failure rate
for this
uh device volva ball one
beared out after 422
hours ball two burned out after
7 44 and the rest and ball
5 didn't show any failure
for 1 000 what is the failure rate
the summation of these operation hours
all these operations are divided by
number of failures four we have five
bars
but there are four failures so we have
four
divided by total operation apps
it means 422 744
803 678
and 1000 the summation of all operation
else
then you have a failure per hour
for this device if the digits
are not meaningful to you for example
you can multiply this failure rate
by 1000 then you have 1.1
failure per 1000
or each year has that much hours
if you multiply that much out by this
one
this device has a failure of 9.6
almost 10 failures per year
then it has a meaningful it is
meaningful for decision
making
another example
three identical systems start to
function
properly at time zero until all of them
fail and the first one
at 100 hours the second one at
120 10 1 130 mtbf
is the total operation house divided by
number of so you can have
this number hours this is the average
time between
each between two failures
if you reverse this number you can you
can have the failure rate for your
system
very simple measures and look you can
see their contribution
into the reliability function for
example then we have exponential density
function
if you solve this integral you can see
the reliability is
something based on the failure rate
or based on the mtp e to the power of
minus lambda t if the failure rate has a
density function of exponential
the failure right here contribute to the
reliability
so um how the reliability
changes over system life cycle
is a bus stop curve like this this
is time and this is failure rate
if you just plot failure rate over time
for a
for a hardware system
is something like basket at the
beginning the failure rate
is hard then we go when you go to the
detailed design
then operation it gets a bit steady
then at the end of a system life cycle
then you're gonna dispose the system the
failure rate
goes on and this is very common
to see in many engineering systems
for software systems um
this behavior is different it has lots
of
fluctuations because uh
software systems uh are somehow very
dynamic
so there is a there is an error there is
a bug
you do debugging so the failure rate may
go
up and down over there system life cycle
and in terms of risk management is good
to know
when you are at the early stage of
system design
risk and uncertainties are very hard
but the cost of making
changes is very low so it's very
important to have a risk analysis
studies in the early stage of system
life cycle
two because of the cost at the same time
you can
you can incorporate more or better
prevention and
protection for your systems to lower the
risk
for your system as it goes over time
to the other phase of system it gets
very
expensive to make any changes and
by the way the the risks are expected to
be lower
in the in the other phase of the system
now i'm going to introduce
reliability below the object we talked
about failure rate we talked about
mtbf and we talked about reliability
functions
for many components reliability
are available for simple components over
the years they have studied
too many data the textbook of
reliability engineering
has appendix and you can get the failure
rate and
mtvf and the reliability function of
many components mechanical electrical
components at that
in the in the textbook but
for how we can use those as small
reliabilities for components
for reliability calculation of a complex
system
we need to have some methods for doing
that
so fmea fault tree reliability block
diagram
and other and many other techniques can
help us
for this purpose and you can see some of
these techniques
are common between reliability
engineering and
risk engineering like fmea faultry
there are risk assessment techniques as
well so we'll talk about them
uh next week today i'm going to
introduce the
ability block diagram it's very good for
reliability calculation
and for assist from a system definition
perspective
it's a conceptual um technique too
so it's very good what is
reliability black diagram is a you have
arm
like this it has some boxes and
these boxes are connected to each other
there are some relationship between
these
between these boxes
so a reliability block diagram
represents the way that
each individual component
contributes to the overall reliability
of a system a complex system
they don't represent the actual or
physical connection between components
for example in your in your in the
engineering system
you have a pump and you have a
lines for example this form
through the lines connect two tanks for
example together
these boxes doesn't represent
necessarily
the connection between actual components
is a conceptual truth it represents the
components relationship
in a way that they contribute
to the reliability of the whole system
we will talk about this
in more details and you can see some of
these all connected
important and some of them are connected
in sales
so you have a configuration of series
and parallel components together
what is a sales configuration
it represents by these boxes connected
to each other
like this it means
any failure in the system
will make a failure for the entire
system
any failure in any individual component
will make a failure for the whole system
so how we use this for reliability
calculation of a series
network we know this system for be
in reliable or survival state
each component should work properly
so component one one survival
and component two survival and the rest
so based on product rule
the reliability of a series network
is look at this
rule then you have a then you have a two
random
um events like a and b the product rule
says
the intersection of these two events
is the multiple collection of individual
probabilities
based on product rule the reliability of
a series configuration
equals to multiplying
of individual reliability
if our network has an exponential
density function you can see
this is component one it has a
reliability of function based on the
exponential
the failure rate of component one and
for other components if you multiply all
these things together
you have the reliability function of the
series net and you can see the
reliability the
failure rate for a sales configuration
is the summation of individual value
individual failure if you reverse this
number
the failure rate you have the mtbf for a
series
configuration look at this example
we have an electronic system it includes
a transmitter
a receiver and a power supply each of
these has a
individual reliabilities
for the first one 0.85
97 for the second one and the rest
so they are in series the reliability of
the entire electronic system
is calculated by multiplying individual
reliabilities
and you have this now look at this digit
if you compare this with individual
reliabilities what do you
what do you get what do you get from
by comparing this number with division
[Music]
you can see the reliability for a series
configuration
is lower than individual reliability
you get the reliability of the whole
system yes
is lower than the individual
so you can see now from a risk analysis
perspective
a series network can show
higher failure in engineering system
so you may think about having more
parallel configuration but there are
other
other things to consider the risk
or the failure is not the only criteria
cost is very important in many
situations so
we will talk about this but for now you
can see
for a series network the reliability is
lower than
individual components so if we connect
some components like this in our system
they have a relationship like this we
call they
are in parallel configuration
as you can see for the failure of these
parallel configuration all components
should fail
so the failure of a parallel
configuration the failure
equals based on the product rule
is the multiplication of
failure individual failure because
reliability
is one minus on reliability so the
for a parallel network can be obtained
through this equation
one minus
the multiplication of individual
failures or each failure can be
represented by
one minus unreliable
look at this example a system includes
two identical subsystems in parallel
the reliability of each subsystem is 95
percent
so the reliability of the whole
configuration
can be because they are identical we can
multiply
1 minus 95 percent to the power of 2
and this is the
total reliability for the entire system
as you
as you can see the reliability for a
parallel configuration
is higher than individual
reliability so this represents
a good alternative in some
cases that your reliability
doesn't meet the requirement
so you may think you may think think
about
having redundancy in your system
as i said there are other things like
costs you need to think
but there are three types of redundancy
you may have an active
standby or passive redundancy in your
system
if the system takes a long time
to be available if there is a
failure it's better to keep the standby
or the
redundant system in active mode
but if the you know the setup time
and you know off time for the redundant
system
is very short it's good to have it in
standby or passive mode
in your system standby means they are
they are not entirely switched off
they are in some kind of being active
but in lower you know efficiency as long
as there is a failure
they can just jump and provide the
functionality for the system
or they may be switched off and you can
just
turn them on in your system to provide a
functional so
if in a parallel network if we have
exponent density function
for individual components so the
reliability function is something like
this
if for an active parallel network
comprising
two components you can see mtvf is
calculated like this the
mathematical background of these
equations are provided in the textbook
reliability engineering textbook you may
have a look
and if you can see if you have
active three components the mtpf gets
very large
and you may think about having four
components
how the mtbf is getting bigger and
bigger
exponentially and this is only for
active followers
if you think about having a standby or
passive systems the calculations are
very complex
so now you can see
most complexes more systems
i think many of complex systems have a
representation of
uh series and parallel configuration
in them so uh reliability belong the
overall can help us to
start from one step and go through
and make sure that we include everything
and
we have a diagram so
their steps are very easy and only i
think
three steps first we need to define the
functions that the system
needs to perform functions
so um for
for example motor car
you may think about these three
functions
ability to carry two passengers ability
to
carry luggage ability to tow a car
these are the functions based on your
client
requirement you may you may understand
all these functions are necessary
if yes you need to put all these
functions in
series network all functions are
necessary
the minimum required for a successful
operation of the system which functions
are necessary
for the functionality of the entire
system
if one of them is enough you may put
them in
configuration or
intermediate configurations are also
possible you
for example your client said i need to
to carry passengers but
between carrying luggage or to a column
one of them is enough
so function a carry
passengers carrying passengers a
with one of them a b or c
so they are in series with these two
important
then for each for each of these
functions you need to decide about
the components that they are necessary
to be in place for each culture
look at this for a carry two passengers
so you need to have two receipts
we need to carry two passengers so is it
kind of
a special representation of this
parallel configuration
then at least two out of three seats
should be available the power
configuration is a special part of
of this configuration two out of three
you can see two out of three
and once it is for driver so we do we
don't think about that
so driver has a seat for carrying
two passengers out of three seats we
need to have two seats available
all carry luggage
we may have roof right or wood one of
them is enough
so the the internal configuration of
this function
is a current configuration between roof
rack and boot
so for towing a car run we need to have
a tool
so we have only one component here
so a was in series
with b in parallel with c so we put
individual components for each function
all their necessity components that they
are necessary for all these functions
should be placed out of these functions
with series configuration
you need a we need a string
we need the brakes we need transmissions
and we have four tires for
five wheels four out of five
wheels should be available
four out of five it's a polaroid
configuration
but at least four out of five
components should be available all of
these are in series
with main functions of this
car so this is the reliability block
diagram
at the end of these three steps for this
case
so we will do the same reliability block
diagram in the case of study in the
tutorial
and it's very common to get some complex
reliability blockchain from and at the
end of your
reliability block diagram
and you may use truth tables or boolean
algebra
to simplify these
um simplify this network for example
look at this this is
a and b or
a and c so based on boolean algebra
you have this x and y or
x and z distributive law so you can
simplify
this one based on x and y or
z so you can simplify simplify your
reliability diagram
by putting a out then b or c
so you can simplify this network and for
the rest
a and a or b
look at this please go through this and
refresh
your mind i know you have done this
before so
and the risk analysis textbook has an
appendix
go through and just refresh your mind
about these
um principles
it was i think uh absorption
uh no x and x
or y is x so in this case
x and
they are not very difficult and
by the way we will talk about boolean
algebra
the coming weeks
it's good to go to india now we talked
about reliability
uh reliability we said this is the
probability
that the system can do
its functions what is maintainability
i know we are running out of time
just i provide the definition of
maintainability
and availability then please in your
spare time go through maintainability
and availability
and in their slides there are some
simple
measures like reliability for
maintainability and availability
and they make sense there are mainly
average things for me
for these two other things
maintainability
we know the system can go forever
there is some fairness so
maintainability
is is the probability that we can
maintain a system
we can repair a system and it's
different from maintenance
in fact maintenance is is the result of
your maintainability
in the system life cycle whatever you
put efforts for maintainability
can result in maintenance actions
so what is availability availability is
the probability that the system is
available at a certain point of time
so it accounts for both reliability and
maintainability we know the system
performs there is a probability
for that rely it is called reliability
there are some failures the system will
be down
so then maintain energy that is the
probability that we can maintain the
system
so the availability is the probability
that the system
is available and it accounts for
maintainability
please go through these two other
concepts in your spare time
i'm gonna stop here and give you a 15
minutes break we will start
tutorial a bit later um
do you have any questions
any questions
okay if you don't have any questions
i'll be in the tutorial as well so
during the break if you have any
questions you can
ask in the tutorial in the tutorial we
try to develop a
reliability block diagram for our cases
study
and we have more exercises to just
practice
these basic concepts about reliability
and we can ignore the maintainability
and availability exercises and make them
self-study
so have 15 minutes break i'll see you in
the tutorial
bye yes
go ahead question
okay 15 minutes break i'll see you in
the tutorial
okay
um
hello everybody are you there
hello doctor how are you thanks how are
you
good okay um consider
15 minutes delay to start the tutorial
okay
we just finished the lecture
after 10 minutes yes let's start at
11 40.
okay good i'll be back
okay yeah yeah thank you sir
um
[Music]
but you please start with the case study
okay
yesterday yes then uh for the for the
exercises
um um yeah we have the case study but at
the end of the session i think we'll
start with the thought or
otherwise please certainly the cases
study and get them to do
reliability engineering for them then
because we we couldn't go through the
maintainability and availability
your focus in the tutorial please be on
um reliability questions
okay okay and yes
by the way we will provide the solutions
but
reliability is much more important for
us maintainability and availability
and students can do by themselves on in
your
in your in their spare time
so um yes please
feel free to start with the case yes
study
thank you so much
you need to all the students need to
have these cases study handy
in the in the meetings in the online
meetings whatever lecture or tutorial
this is our main focus to talk about
one engineering system and the methods
that we implement
you should do the same the same as this
in your cases studies
for assessments so it's very important
to follow what we do in the cases study
in the subject
if you if you want to download this is
in the module
in every modules you can you can get
access to this
document and download it
go ahead
so
[Music]
yeah here we have a case study
so i mean this is the case study of
the previous one we i mean in the
previous class we have
already discussed regarding this uh if
you have read the whole case study that
is
x expand detail in the previous class
then you can understand this is just the
summary of the
enter gesture uh so
uh here you can uh see the components
like uh the whole case study what is
explained here
like the case concerns the ignition of
the vapor cloud
in 2002 and 200 gallon
open tank uh used for mixing a flammable
liquid
in the manufacture of a product called
super clean and daylighting you can read
the
whole case study what is uh
i mean what it explains from the whole
system that have been explained in the
previous
class then we can go through the details
oh
hmm
[Music]
this
so
foreign
last week we said and this case study
has three main functions this open top
tank system
heating mixing and venting so
concentrate on these three functions
decide about the high level of
configuration
between these three functions
then for each function determine
which component in which configurations
are connected to each other
yeah so here we have to draw
a uh the reliability block diagram
for this case study
so we have in total three components we
have in this whole system as you can see
uh the tank in this case is equipped
with steam coils
as shown in the figure that's over here
and
the supply uh yeah that's applied the
heat
required for the mixing process so we
have mixing
is one component we have heating
that is another component and we have
ventilation
so there are different i mean three main
components and the different
uh parts uh to control all of them
um yeah we have pneumatic control in it
we have steamboats
uh we have sensors
okay so what happening is that
so we have the tank and there is the
coil
[Music]
we have different components along with
some ingredients that need to be mixed
so what we need to do is we need to
give the proper amount of heat to a
certain temperature so that the mixture
will be
properly done so that the vapor could
not
form in in over a month and that could
not come out from the vent
so that the hijab will be managed so
next thing is
the mixture of the ingredient needs to
be done properly
so we have also again that if actually
the vapor forms
in over amount so the vapor from
the system could be come out through the
band up
[Music]
so uh we have to make actually
a reliability birth diagram
so can anyone draw that
[Music]
oh
so
[Music]
using the three main components you have
to draw the
reliability block dragon in one can draw
[Music]
not coming to the solution part
let me show you here how can we draw
so here you can see episode acceleration
here
so there are different uh parts in the
whole system
uh starting from the sensor to the plate
we have different symbols for different
components
but the main components are actually the
heating mixing and ventilation
so we can divide all these
components into three parts uh starting
from the sensor
uh we can provide some particular
symbols for different components
so for sensors we have is the demanded
pneumatic unit we have pe for operator
we have ohm
so similarly we have all the
[Music]
symbols for all the major components
here
and then we have to prepare the
reliability block diagram so
followed by the whole process what we
have explained in the
whole case study so as you can see there
is the tag
so tank will be separate
because that's a that's that's another
system actually
and the other components that are
stated as a b and c these are three
main components as i explained like
heating mixing
and ventilation so
the product will make sure that the tank
followed by the c c is here you can see
c is our steam coils so the steam coil
will heat
once the heating process will go on so
the mixture
uh need i mean the temperature need to
be managed in two different ways
uh one will be the manual and another
will be
the automatic one so in case of manual
so there will be an operator and we have
the
infrared thermometer and there will be
the manual way of approach
to control the temperature and the
other case will be the automatic wave so
we have a sensor
and we have a pneumatic unit
so in this way also we can
control the temperature so there are two
different ways so they are
all in parallel so either
i mean either one of them is working it
doesn't matter
so the process will go on and moving to
the second
that is our
mixing part so
in mixing part we have uh only
the blade and the engine so the
plate comes next and the engine will
start
[Music]
for the mixing processes and then comes
to the
third section which is our ventilation
path
so here we have three main components uh
the first one is can and then comes to
the bench and the dub plugin
so all r will be in a series
and the whole process will go on and
finally we get the product
uh of finding actually
what is the reliability or the quality
of
being trustworthy of
hardware the system is performing and
so if you can understand
please try to make this block diagram
by yourself using different techniques
or different approaches
before any question regarding this you
can ask any questions
lasting yes
um is this like an analytic or
systematic um analysis like are we
breaking into components and um finding
out
um the relationship or do we look at as
an overall picture
in this scenario okay
as i said in the in the lecture
reliability block diagram is a
conceptual
tool so for doing this
we need to concentrate on the functions
first
uh we in the case the study we
determined three main functions last
week
heating mixing and ventilating
so then we decide about the high level
of
diagram between these functions
or all these functions are necessary
so they are connected in series you can
see
the big box for a big box for b and b
big box for c they are connected in
series
for each function we determine which
components are necessary
and in which configuration
for heating we have the esteem
coils we have
operator who who measures the
temperature
manually through a thermometer
then we have a manual steam valve
in the automated part we have the sensor
and p p unit pneumatic unit
and we have an automatic string valve
based on the case one of these
is enough for measuring the temperature
manually or automatic
so manually and automatically are
connected in parallel
you can see we have a top branch here
for o
i and m and we have a lower branch in
parallel for
s p and u
c which is the uh i think uh
sees the steam coils is necessary for
both of these
so c is connected in series
with these two branches for mixing
we need both blade and engine
and they are both are necessary for this
function so they are connected in cells
for ventilating we need fan built and
docked blocking
so all of them are necessary so they are
connected in sales
we consider tank as a component
which is necessary for all these
functions
so we put it outside of these stream
functions in series
network this is the steps are these are
the steps of
uh reliability block diagram for any
cases
as you can see the connection between
components doesn't represent the
physical connection between
components they may represent
the physical connection but it's not
necessarily the physical connection
between these components
we have other i think a couple of other
exercises about the liability block the
aircraft
so you have more opportunity to exercise
this
righty you may just jump to to the
pumping system for a city
go a bit down yes and this one is very
very
uh simple we have a circuit
and you can see all of them are
necessary
for the function of running motor
so they are they are connected in series
this one is very
easy now you can look at the pumping
system for a city
and draw the reliability diagram for
that
[Music]
yeah that one was a bit complicated so
we start with this
then that will be easy to draw
[Music]
okay
uh
[Music]
few
uh
[Music]
anyone can tell how many components you
have here
the three yeah for the system how many
components you have
[Music]
we have mirror switch on the battery
switch and battery
oh yeah the components are just the
switch and battery and the murder of
course
yeah we have three components we have to
use the three components
and of course the input and output
so make up block diagram
so you have the battery once
once the power flows through the battery
and you have also a switch
so the switch will be on and it will
form a closed circuit
it's already returned in the question
consider the simple closed circuit
shown in the figure below so once the
circuit will be closed
the power will drive pass through the
switch and comes to the
motor and the motor tends to run so
that's
that's what is happening in this case so
you have to simply
make a reliability block diagram
showing how the the power passes through
the switch and
through the motor and finally you are
getting the output
[Music]
so
okay can you can you tell me all the
components will be
in series or will be in parallel
they'll be in series
yeah all the components will be in
series so you have to make a series
block background so the first first word
will come
first the battery the power source will
come
okay and then comes to the switch
and then comes to the motor providing
our output
let me show you the diagram how it looks
it's a simple one
yeah this one so we have input
of power through the battery
and then switch next to come
and once the switch will learn it will
form a slow circuit
and then the power goes to the motor
and the motor tends to run providing you
out
that's the simple one okay
okay coming to the next question this
one is also a bit
complicated but here your aim is to also
i mean draw the reliability block
diagram
just read it out uh the question what
uh what are the important points given
here
and how you can start with
what's up
foreign
is there any idea
what are the functions in the case
step one
i can think of two functions delivering
water
through branch one or delivering water
through branch two
what do you need for for the first
function through branch one
what do you see in terms of components
for for this function
valves okay which one
you go above one is the main one which
is in series then you have about two and
three as the
um parallel components
okay i it's good to go through
this model step by step function a
i i say delivering water through
uh branch one which includes pump one
function two delivering water through
um p2 branch
for the first one function what i need
i have v2 p1
we have v2 p1 and v4
they are connected in series or parallel
v4 they're in series p1 and v4
very good they are in cells we can see
if one of them
show a failure the branch
will not work so they are insane
for another branch through p2 still
we can see v3 p2
and v5 are necessary so they are in
cells
so other and other necessity components
which are not into these branches they
are necessary for the entire system to
work
so we have a t1 v1
sensing and control system
[Music]
and ac power they are all necessary for
the function of for the performance of
these two functions
so they are included in series
out of these two functions roti can you
show
the diagram
[Music]
is very good function a
including these three components v2
p1 v4 in series function b
v3 p2 v5 in series
sensing ac v1 and t1 all necessary for
these two
functions so they are connected in
series with this
sub network
[Music]
you have this the outground so if you
have
individual reliability you can calculate
the reliability for
this case so um
for the calculation roti you can start
with um
let me see which questions
maybe now is good time to look at the
question um
seven if you have individual
reliabilities
we can calculate the reliability for the
entire network
so do seven then you can start from the
beginning
question number six actually then all
the all you've got or i mean all the
understand
[Music]
okay let's not come to the question
number seven so
we do not have any particular system
here so we have already the block
diagram
and based on the block diagram we need
to calculate the reliability here
so we have already uh described in the
table like
how many components we have starting
from a till
and we have the reliability value for
each component
and the block that comes on here
we have input and also the output and
the whole system
uh inside uh is
uh pointed out here starting from eight
till the
till we get the output so we have
different
uh
uh i mean if you think about
individually
so we have many systems inside a
particular system
so a can be considered as a single
system
bcde can be considered as another system
it can be considered as another system
and gh can be considered another system
so similarly we'll find
many systems here okay so we have
the reliability value for all the
components
and you have to calculate reliability
so use the parallel and series
formulas and try to find out
what could be the reliability for the
whole system
[Music]
uh
so
[Music]
oh
so
[Music]
this is
can anyone calculate for the b c and d e
the reliability value
any idea
do we work at each block individually
first and then
do the whole thing together afterward
very good very good
but if you have b and c in series
so how can you calculate
so that's point seven that's point seven
eight seven you just multiplied it to
the error
correct and if you have uh
in parallel and then the bottom one is
point
seven four uh five
nine let's say point seven four say
point seven
five that's multiplying again together
yeah for d
you have point three eight six and four
you have point eight seven
so once again yeah you will multiply and
then you'll find the value for d e
and then the first one will find the
value for bc
but you want to find the whole system
then you have to make it for
parallel parallel series yeah
so pc plus
t okay
here you can see you have to make
for the first one vc then de
because they are in series but b c
and d e these two are in
parallel so you will uh
partner okay
[Music]
and then minus the whole value
similarly you can find this one for the
whole system
and then f is
[Music]
in series again you multiply with this
value
[Music]
okay and then comes to the next gh
they both are in parallel so simply plus
g value plus h value and then multiply
with the f
and then multiply with i so the whole
system value will come out
for the above part for the downward part
we will do the same process
and you will find one value for the top
part
and one value for the down part and then
you can see both are in
parallel again we'll just add them
and then multiply with the final a
you find the total value which which i
have shown here 0 1 7 to
9 2
[Music]
so
you simply use the parallel formula and
the series formula to
calculate the values you have already
the values provided
with the questions
[Music]
any questions
and any idea for running the tutorials
better
please email me um we are
open to any good uh suggestion
any uh comments to run the tutorials
better do you think
breakout room will work for you if you
sit
in a breakout room four or five students
together
discuss the questions please let me know
feel free to email me to organize the
tutorials even
the lectures better we are open
to any comments thank you
okay alrighty so maybe you kind of start
for
with a couple of calculations about
failure rate and mtbf
okay so let's discuss starting from
uh eight till the case study
these are the calculations but uh most
of them
have actually used formulas and use the
formula
the answer only that's the way but some
of the questions are
actually good importance like this one
question number 10
and this one as well question number
eight so let me discuss eight and ten
yeah okay the question number eight you
have the following data regarding an
uh equipment item with seven components
and you have to predict the empty vf you
know the mtv here
so is actually mean time between failure
and for the whole equipment system so
you have the
components starting from a to g and
you have the quantities of parts used
how many parts used in the whole system
and the failure rate for each part
that also came here with percentage
and the total operation time was 1000
hours
so what you have to do you have to
calculate the mtpf
so simply use the formulas and there are
a lot of formulas for
integrate calculation in different ways
so but based on the question you can use
your
formula and estimate
um
[Music]
uh
yes
[Music]
so
as you can see we don't have any
configuration for this component system
and we're gonna all predict mtbf
not you know exactly the actual mtv
so if you're gonna predict you need to
assume the worst case scenario and this
and you can you may assume the
components are insane
uh
[Laughter]
we have actually
different parts for different components
i mean how many are in different
components
and you have the failure rate so in
general we have a formula for the
integrated calculation like
uh mtv refugee equal to one by lambda
and lambda is actually of candidate
but we have the failure at increasing
percentage
but we have to calculate for the whole
system
so we simply multiply the total parts
with the failure rate which are in
percentage
and then sum them up once you find the
summation of
all the uh failure rates for all the
components
then you simply divide it by 1000 and
that
has our operation type
and once you get that so we'll get the
whole lambda
for the whole system and then
one by lambda which is equal to our
mtdf let me solve the solution
[Music]
so see here you can see you have
quantities
of different parts we have 16 for
component a
75 for component p 32 for c
similarly 28 for component g
so for all the components we have
uh different failure rates
so we simply multiply the 16 with
0.135 and then 75
at 0.121 and 32
0.25 and we'll find some values
and then sum them up once you'll find
uh once you sum them up you will get
44.193
uh percentage which is your favorite
for the whole system and you have
operational time of 1000 hours
so 44.193 divided by
1000 okay
so that's your lambda and you know the
npv formula
so 1 by lambda which will give you 2
262.80 that's your mtpf value for the
whole system
okay now let's come to the question
number 10
if you understood the question number
eight
question number nine is is actually easy
so you have a single formula
for the main corrective uh
time calculation and you simply use the
formula and get your answer
so the formula for the question number
nine is
uh actually use mdbf
into into your
one minus inherent availability
one why we use one minus inherent
availability is
actually out of hundred percent you have
the value of inner and outer
availability zero point nine and zero so
that's why we use one minus
uh 0.990 uh divided by your total
inherent availability
so you have 0.99 and then we'll
get your main corrective
maintenance type
[Music]
which is here
your mtpf into one minus
inherent availability divided by
inventory so we'll get
4.04 hours that's your mct
okay now let's come to the question
number 10
so you have a system that is made out of
five components in series
so all the components starting from a
two till e
with the mtbr values have been provided
here with the cost
to reduce the failures and all these
components are in series uh according to
the question okay
so your design analysis has been shown
for all the components and we have to
redesign actually the empty beer
by a factor of five okay
so estimated development cost to reduce
the failures is shown in the
table below the cost effectively
effecting this criterion has been
defined to estimate establish the
priority for the component
to redesign as an improvement in failure
rate
divided by the cost to implement the
design
change for each component so that's the
same quotation mark that's the important
point
you can understand that and then the
component
with the highest value of ce the cost
effectiveness
will have the highest priority for the
game
so what is the time which is
for all the reliability which is 1000
hours
so if there are four questions we need
to answer based on the
given information uh the question number
a
is how we need to calculate the mtbf
of the enter system before it is on
we have the values before the design
then we will go for the redesign
then we have to calculate after
retention what is it
and what are the mtpf and then using
these values we have the first
to reduce the value and we have the
redesigned mtpf and the
value array and at the end we can
calculate
what is the cost effectiveness for the
whole redesign
and at the end based on the values we
can prioritize you can rank them
so try to solve it by yourself i will
recommend that
and then again
uh
[Music]
so you have the components and the empty
here
for each component canon does the
estimate what are the failures
for each component anyone can
do that
so before going to redesign the whole
system
we have only the original system and in
the original system we have
already mtbf but we do not have the
failure rate so we need to calculate the
failure rate from the empty day
and to calculate the failure rates we
have the formula already for
failure rates so which is one by mtvf
so simply use that formula and get your
failure rate
for the original system so once you get
that
[Music]
then we'll go for the redesigning of the
system because the system already said
in the question like
mtbf when we will go for the redesign
uh we need to improve the individual
mtdf by a factor of five
so we simply multiply phi for
each component amplifier then we
will get our redesigned mdpf for the
whole system
and once we get the religion mtvf
we'll simply use that values to estimate
the redesigned
failure rate so once you get the
revision
failure rate then we'll go for the
payload
reduction calculation so for that we
simply
uh implement the formula because we have
the original
failure rate and we will have the
revision failure rate
and we will minus them from the original
to the
to and we'll get our
failure rate reduction values so once
you get the failure rate reduction
we'll go for the cost effectiveness as
uh as you already described
the question c so for the cost
effectiveness
we have to simply use the formula so you
know rate reduction that we
achieved from the previous calculation
are divided by the
redesign cost which is
here the cost to reduce the failure
starting from 1000 till the 5000 for
different components
okay so once you get the redesign cost
then we will go for the rank or the
other priority estimation for each
component
so let me show you the answer
[Music]
so here you can see the components
we have total five components for the
whole system and we have already the
empty via value
as you can see empty here okay then we
will go for the failure rate
analysis for failure rate you need to
use the formula one by
mtbf then we get these values
then we'll sum their power so we'll find
the total value of
zero point triple zero five is a failure
rate
for the whole system where the mtpf is
okay and then we'll go for redesigning
processes
simply multiply five as best as
indication
multiply five with the mdba
so you have nine thousand one hundred
into five
you'll have forty five thousand five
hundred is your interest and empty here
so once you get the redesign integer
then
again use the same formula of failure
rate analysis
so one by mtbf you will get your
redesign
failure evaluation okay
so for the revision system you also got
your mtpf
and failure rates now you have to
estimate
and the reducing cost is already
described in the question
for all the components and now we have
to estimate that
failure rate reduction and for that as i
explained before the
formula simply your original failure
rate
minus your release and failure okay
then you'll get your religion uh
i mean failure reduction okay
and once you get that then we'll go for
the cost effectiveness
so for the cost effectiveness i have to
simply use
the failure rate reduction which is here
okay this one and there
uh divided by your eating joint cost so
zero point
zero zero zero zero double eight divided
by one thousand
you'll get eighty eight into ten to the
power nine 9
because the question already so you have
the effectiveness
are the times of 10 to 1 9 so you get 88
something
right equal to 1 9 for the whole
components and then based on these
values
okay so we'll prioritize our time frame
up
so the highest value is 88 so the rank
will be one
for the first component and
the rank will be two for the third
component as it is
a bit lower than the electricity the
value is 53
and then the third component uh the
second combinator will be ranked as
three and then fourth one will be four
and this one will be five
okay now you can compare the component
of
uh the ranks of the component for the
original
and the redesign values
[Music]
oh
okay so this question is actually
we have lots of formulas uh to estimate
so simply use the formula and you have
the
ordinary different components and there
are values
so we use the formula and put over 30
maintainability questions for the
students
to do self-study you may do question one
two and three and um finish the tutorial
for today yes
okay so the question number one
uh we can do the question and uh domain
name
of this question you need to estimate
the failure rate follow the system
so we have the values
[Music]
and the increment of the formula find
the favorite
so this is a bit easy one
i think all of us can calculate
[Music]
take one
anyone can say what will be the value or
how we can calculate the failure rate
here
[Music]
that's a simple formula to calculate
your failure so you have the total
number of failures okay
the total number failure actually four
and divided by the sum of the
operational time of each component
okay so for the component to one
it fails after 30 hours so 1 into 30
plus 1 into 85 that's component number 2
85 similarly you sum them up
so that's the sum of the operational
time of each component
okay and the formula is total number of
failures before
okay out of 10 components 4 failed after
4 35 hours
so 4 by 3 4 by the value
of the sum of the operational time of
each form so we get your value
of total failure rate this is 0.001061
that's the easy one
[Music]
okay let's come to the question number
two
uh here the question looks complicated
but it's easy also
uh simply use the formula and get to
answer
[Music]
here you have operating cycle for a
given system
that is 169 hours to operating time
whole time
and during that time you have the six
failures occur at points
indicated we have downtime you have
operating
so
[Music]
anyone can conclude
for the failure and calculation you have
the same formula
as i explained in the question number
one
so you have the total same you buy
divided by your operational type
but as long as you have your downturn uh
of failures so you have to minus 10 and
then we'll get your failure rate
so you have total failure how much
yeah total six failure
[Music]
divided by operational time minus some
of the
downtime of your failures
so you have have
six
[Music]
failures divided by the
operational time in total 169 and then
some of the downtime of failures
okay these are the downtimes of the
failures so minus 10 you will find 142
and 6 by 142 your value is 0.042
that's your that's your failure rate
and again how can you calculate the mtpf
any idea
anyone can say
simply here's the formula of one by
lambda you have already the federal rate
and the antivirus formula is one by
failure rate and we'll get the value
so empty of calculation
okay let's come to the question number
three are you guys listening to me
yes we are listening here and we are
answering in the chat box because
my connectivity is not good
okay let's come to the question number
[Music]
three
uh you have a system that consists of
five subsystems
the following ntbs you have
eight uh sorry five components
uh and for each component you have the
mtpf values
and the components have exponential
density and are connected in series so
let me explain that these components
again in series so you have to estimate
the probability of survival
and you have the operational time period
of 1000 hours
so can you estimate what is the
probability of survival for the whole
system
[Music]
um
uh
[Music]
oh
um
failure rate right
the failure rate formula is one by mtbf
okay so we have to estimate the
reliability of the probability of
survival
so we have a general formula of
uh actually r is equal to the
exponential
of the negative summation of your
failure rate into your operational time
so once you get your failure rate for
each component you just sum them up
and you have already your operational
time which is 1000 hours
and you use the formula exponential of
negative summation of your
failure into uh your operational time
then we get your reliability or the
four-wheel drive
that's here okay so we just first find
out what is the lambda value for each
component
and then use the formula for reliability
the exponential of negative summation of
uh your failure rate into on operational
time
and then you will get your value which
is 0.5360
all right
so question number five is already
explained let's just point it out the
question number four
the failure rate of the device is 22
failures for a million hours
so you have to actually return that
units are added to the system
so we have to simply determine the empty
way for the whole system
so it's clearly mentioned in this
question that we have
two active redundant units that has been
added to the system
so whether the genius
uh function or not but the whole system
whole device will work
but as you can see the all the
connected uh syst i mean components are
in parallel series
so simply i have to determine the mtpf
using the formulas
[Music]
foreign
here you can see
what you want to convert it on but
we will also share the
solutions with you
yeah we're almost done yes this is fine
question number 11
and yeah 11 they need to calculate by
themselves
uh these are only based on some formulas
simply find the formula and put your
values and get your answer
that's it any questions
i want to ask about the solution of
number 10
a little bit confused because the cost
of
effective fitness is it has 10 and it
has power of number nine where does it
nine come from
yeah from the solution number
10 number 10
it is written because of effective
effectiveness at times
so yes so this one is one line right
yeah that's nine come from
okay let me let me jump in
because we are working with the small
digits and
to make it a bit meaningful we just
multiply the number of this
ratio the failure per cost
by 10 to the power of 9 to get a bit
better digits for decision making so
it doesn't make any changes in the cost
effectiveness ratio
but it makes the numbers the digits
bigger
and they have they are meaningful but
they are better for decision making
that's the only
thing of you know usage
and also in the question you can see the
cost effectiveness criteria has been
defined to estimate the priority so
that's why we have implemented
21 nine times okay
thank you so much i got it
very good pill is in your spare time we
have more exercises here about
some measures about maintainability and
availability
in your spare time look at the lecture
notes first
we introduce these measures they are
mainly
average mean and then in your spare time
at some other questions about
maintainability and available
if you don't have any questions for now
we will see you next week
thank you thank you everybody thank you
so much thank you